scripting/docs/FUNCTIONS_MESSAGING.md, before:

# Messaging Specific Functions

Globally available messaging functions.

- [Messaging Specific Functions](#messaging-specific-functions)
  - [SendBroadcast(message string)](#sendbroadcastmessage-string)
  - [SendUserMessage(userId int, message string)](#sendusermessageuserid-int-message-string)
  - [SendRoomMessage(roomId int, message string, \[, excludeUserIds int\])](#sendroommessageroomid-int-message-string--excludeuserids-int)

## [SendBroadcast(message string)](/scripting/messaging_func.go)
Sends a message to everyone on the server

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| message | The message to send. |

## [SendUserMessage(userId int, message string)](/scripting/messaging_func.go)
Sends a message to the userId specified

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| userId | The userId who should receive the message. |
| message | The message to send. |

## [SendRoomMessage(roomId int, message string, [, excludeUserIds int])](/scripting/messaging_func.go)
Sends a message to all users in the roomId specified

Note: If this is in a function for an event a user triggered, they will automatically be excluded.

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| roomId | The roomId to transmit the message to. |
| message | The message to send. |
| excludeUserIds | One or more comma separated userIds to exclude from receiving the message. |

Commit message:

item adjectives, send room exit message, requeuing, explosion delay

scripting/docs/FUNCTIONS_MESSAGING.md, after:

# Messaging Specific Functions

Globally available messaging functions.

- [Messaging Specific Functions](#messaging-specific-functions)
  - [SendBroadcast(message string)](#sendbroadcastmessage-string)
  - [SendUserMessage(userId int, message string)](#sendusermessageuserid-int-message-string)
  - [SendRoomMessage(roomId int, message string, \[, excludeUserIds int\])](#sendroommessageroomid-int-message-string--excludeuserids-int)

## [SendBroadcast(message string)](/scripting/messaging_func.go)
Sends a message to everyone on the server

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| message | The message to send. |

## [SendUserMessage(userId int, message string)](/scripting/messaging_func.go)
Sends a message to the userId specified

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| userId | The userId who should receive the message. |
| message | The message to send. |

## [SendRoomMessage(roomId int, message string, [, excludeUserIds int])](/scripting/messaging_func.go)
Sends a message to all users in the roomId specified

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| roomId | The roomId to transmit the message to. |
| message | The message to send. |
| excludeUserIds | One or more comma separated userIds to exclude from receiving the message. |

## [SendRoomExitsMessage(roomId int, message string, [, excludeUserIds int])](/scripting/messaging_func.go)
Sends a message to all rooms with an exit leading to this room

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| roomId | The roomId to transmit the message to. |
| message | The message to send. |
| excludeUserIds | One or more comma separated userIds to exclude from receiving the message. |
