scripting/docs/FUNCTIONS_ROOMS.md, before:

# Room Specific Functions

- [Room Specific Functions](#room-specific-functions)
  - [GetRoom(roomId int) RoomObject ](#getroomroomid-int-roomobject-)
  - [RoomObject.RoomId() int](#roomobjectroomid-int)
  - [RoomObject.SendText(msg string\[, excludeUserIds int\])](#roomobjectsendtextmsg-string-excludeuserids-int)
  - [RoomObject.SetTempData(key string, value any)](#roomobjectsettempdatakey-string-value-any)
  - [RoomObject.GetTempData(key string) any](#roomobjectgettempdatakey-string-any)
  - [RoomObject.SetPermData(key string, value any)](#roomobjectsetpermdatakey-string-value-any)
  - [RoomObject.GetPermData(key string) any](#roomobjectgetpermdatakey-string-any)
  - [RoomObject.GetItems() \[\]ItemObject](#roomobjectgetitems-itemobject)
  - [RoomObject.DestroyItem(itm ScriptItem) ](#roomobjectdestroyitemitm-scriptitem-)
  - [RoomObject.SpawnItem(itemId int, inStash bool) \[\]ItemObject](#roomobjectspawnitemitemid-int-instash-bool-itemobject)
  - [RoomObject.GetMobs() \[\]int](#roomobjectgetmobs-int)
  - [RoomObject.GetPlayers() \[\]int](#roomobjectgetplayers-int)
  - [RoomObject.GetContainers() \[\]string](#roomobjectgetcontainers-string)
  - [RoomObject.GetExits() \[\]object](#roomobjectgetexits-object)
  - [GetMap(mapRoomId int, mapSize string, mapHeight int, mapWidth int, mapName string, showSecrets bool \[,mapMarker string, mapMarker string\]) string](#getmapmaproomid-int-mapsize-string-mapheight-int-mapwidth-int-mapname-string-showsecrets-bool-mapmarker-string-mapmarker-string-string)
  - [RoomObject.HasQuest(questId string \[,partyUserId int\]) \[\]int](#roomobjecthasquestquestid-string-partyuserid-int-int)
  - [RoomObject.MissingQuest(questId string \[,partyUserId int\]) \[\]int](#roomobjectmissingquestquestid-string-partyuserid-int-int)
  - [RoomObject.SpawnMob(mobId int) Actor](#roomobjectspawnmobmobid-int-actor)
  - [RoomObject.AddTemporaryExit(exitNameSimple string, exitNameFancy string, exitRoomId int, roundTTL int](#roomobjectaddtemporaryexitexitnamesimple-string-exitnamefancy-string-exitroomid-int-roundttl-int)
  - [RoomObject.RemoveTemporaryExit(exitNameSimple string, exitNameFancy string, exitRoomId int](#roomobjectremovetemporaryexitexitnamesimple-string-exitnamefancy-string-exitroomid-int)
  - [RoomObject.RepeatSpawnItem(itemId int, roundInterval int \[, containerName\]](#roomobjectrepeatspawnitemitemid-int-roundinterval-int--containername)
  - [RoomObject.SetLocked(exitName string, lockIt bool)](#roomobjectsetlockedexitname-string-lockit-bool)

## [GetRoom(roomId int) RoomObject ](/scripting/room_func.go)
Retrieves a RoomObject for a given roomId.

## [RoomObject.RoomId() int](/scripting/room_func.go)
Returns the roomId of the room.

## [RoomObject.SendText(msg string[, excludeUserIds int])](/scripting/room_func.go)
Sends a message to everyone in the room.

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| msg | the message to send |
| excludeUserIds | One or more comma separated userIds to exclude from receiving the message. |

## [RoomObject.SetTempData(key string, value any)](/scripting/room_func.go)
Sets temporary data for the room (Lasts until the room is unloaded from memory).

_Note: This is useful for short term saving/retrieving data between room scripts, such as a switch being triggered._

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| key | A unique identifier for the data. |
| value | What you will be saving. |

## [RoomObject.GetTempData(key string) any](/scripting/room_func.go)
Gets temporarily saved data for the room. Data is ephemeral.

_Note: This is useful for short term saving/retrieving data between room scripts, such as a switch being triggered._

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| key | A unique identifier for the data. |

## [RoomObject.SetPermData(key string, value any)](/scripting/room_func.go)
Sets permanent data for the room (Saved even when room is unloaded from memory).

_Note: This is useful for long term saving/retrieving data between room scripts, such as a leaderboard or clan ownership._

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| key | A unique identifier for the data. |
| value | What you will be saving. |

## [RoomObject.GetPermData(key string) any](/scripting/room_func.go)
Gets permanently saved data for the room.

_Note: This is useful for long term saving/retrieving data between room scripts, such as a leaderboard or clan ownership._

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| key | A unique identifier for the data. |

## [RoomObject.GetItems() []ItemObject](/scripting/room_func.go)
Returns an array of items on the floor of the room.

_Note: See [/scripting/docs/FUNCTIONS_ITEMS.md](/scripting/docs/FUNCTIONS_ITEMS.md) for details on ItemObject objects._

## [RoomObject.DestroyItem(itm ScriptItem) ](/scripting/room_func.go)
Destroy an item from the ground.

## [RoomObject.SpawnItem(itemId int, inStash bool) []ItemObject](/scripting/room_func.go)
Spawns an item in the room.

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| itemId | ItemId to spawn. |
| inStash | If true, spawns stashed instead of visible. |

## [RoomObject.GetMobs() []int](/scripting/room_func.go)
Returns an array of `mobInstanceIds` in the room.

## [RoomObject.GetPlayers() []int](/scripting/room_func.go)
Returns an array of `userIds` in the room.

## [RoomObject.GetContainers() []string](/scripting/room_func.go)
Gets a list of container names in the room.

## [RoomObject.GetExits() []object](/scripting/room_func.go)
Gets a list of exits in the room.

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| roomId | The room id to get containers for. |

Each `object` in the returned array has the following properties:
|  Property | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| Name | Name of the exit such as `north` or `cave`. |
| Secret | Whether or not the exit is secret/hidden. |
| Lock | `false` if no lock |
| Lock.LockId | Id if the lock (Some keys may match it) |
| Lock.Difficulty | Difficulty rating of the lock |
| Lock.Sequence | Lockpicking sequence of the lock such as `UUDU` |

## [GetMap(mapRoomId int, mapSize string, mapHeight int, mapWidth int, mapName string, showSecrets bool [,mapMarker string, mapMarker string]) string](/scripting/room_func.go)
Gets a rendered map of an area.

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| mapRoomId | The room id center the map on. |
| mapSize | `wide` or `normal`. Wide maps fit more rooms but don't show the connections. |
| mapHeight | How many lines high the map should be |
| mapWidth | How many lines wide the map should be |
| mapName | The title to display at the top of the map |
| showSecrets | If `true`, show secret rooms. |
| mapMarker (optional) | Zero or more special strings specifying a symbol and legend to override on the map. |
|   | For example: `1,×,Here` Would put `×` on `RoomId 1` and mark is as `Here` on the legend. |

## [RoomObject.HasQuest(questId string [,partyUserId int]) []int](/scripting/room_func.go)
Returns an array of userId's in the room who have the questId. If partyyUserId is supplied, only checks the user and their party specified.

_Note: This could be useful for situations where you want to allow a whole party access to an area even if only one of them has the quest._

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| questId | The identifier of the quest such as `3-start`. |
| partyUserId (optional) | Only check the specified user and their party |

## [RoomObject.MissingQuest(questId string [,partyUserId int]) []int](/scripting/room_func.go)
Returns an array of userId's in the romo who DON'T have the questId. If partyyUserId is supplied, only checks the user and their party specified.

_Note: This could be useful for situations where you want to disallow a whole party access to an area even if only one of them is missing the quest._

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| questId | The identifier of the quest such as `3-start`. |
| partyUserId (optional) | Only check the specified user and their party |

## [RoomObject.SpawnMob(mobId int) Actor](/scripting/room_func.go)
Creates a new instance of MobId,and returns the `Actor` of the mob.

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| mobId | The ID if the mob type to spawn. NOT THE INSTANCE ID. |

## [RoomObject.AddTemporaryExit(exitNameSimple string, exitNameFancy string, exitRoomId int, roundTTL int](/scripting/room_func.go)
Adds a temporary exit to the room for the specified amount of time.

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| exitNameSimple | The simple plain text exit name. |
| exitNameFancy | Should be the simple name, but can have color tags. |
| exitRoomId | The roomId the exit should lead to. |
| roundTTL | How many rounds the exit should persist for. |

## [RoomObject.RemoveTemporaryExit(exitNameSimple string, exitNameFancy string, exitRoomId int](/scripting/room_func.go)
Removes a temporary exit

_Note: all 3 parameters much match an existing temporary exit for it to be removed._

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| exitNameSimple | The simple plain text exit name. |
| exitNameFancy | Should be the simple name, but can have color tags. |
| exitRoomId | The roomId the exit should lead to. |

## [RoomObject.RepeatSpawnItem(itemId int, roundInterval int [, containerName]](/scripting/room_func.go)
Removes a temporary exit

_Note: all 3 parameters much match an existing temporary exit for it to be removed._

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| itemId | What item? |
| roundInterval | How many rounds until the item respawns after it is taken/removed from the room? |
| containerName | Optional container for the item to spawn into. |

## [RoomObject.SetLocked(exitName string, lockIt bool)](/scripting/room_func.go)
Sets an exit to locked or not (If it has a lock)

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| exitName | The exitname to lock/unlock |
| lockIt | if true, sets it to locked. Otherwise, unlocks it. |

Commit message:

Mutators, Time and respawn overhaul (#154)
# Motivation

This is to support special mutators that can apply to rooms, characters, rooms, etc.
Initially support for rooms is all this PR will cover for now.

During the coding of these changes, several other changes are also being snuck in, see changes

# Changes
* Adding `Mutator` package and support, with a single initial mutator defined: `dusty`
* Redefining cooldowns/spawnrates to use a plain text string such as `1 day`, `2 real week` etc. (This will need documentation at some point)
  * `1 day`, `1 week`, `1 month`, `1 year`, defaulting to "game time", but can be overridden with `real` keyword.
* Fictional month names added
* Fictional Zodiac's for each year, randomly seeded by the mud seed.
* Date shows on sunrise
* `mob.Sleep( {seconds} )` command added, also script support.
* Room `269` has a basic example of a `dusty` mutator, along with a broom that spawns that can remove the dusty mutator (until it respawns) by typing `sweep broom`.
  * May consider supporting single verb/commands like `sweep` eventually.

scripting/docs/FUNCTIONS_ROOMS.md, after:

# Room Specific Functions

- [Room Specific Functions](#room-specific-functions)
  - [GetRoom(roomId int) RoomObject ](#getroomroomid-int-roomobject-)
  - [RoomObject.RoomId() int](#roomobjectroomid-int)
  - [RoomObject.SendText(msg string\[, excludeUserIds int\])](#roomobjectsendtextmsg-string-excludeuserids-int)
  - [RoomObject.SetTempData(key string, value any)](#roomobjectsettempdatakey-string-value-any)
  - [RoomObject.GetTempData(key string) any](#roomobjectgettempdatakey-string-any)
  - [RoomObject.SetPermData(key string, value any)](#roomobjectsetpermdatakey-string-value-any)
  - [RoomObject.GetPermData(key string) any](#roomobjectgetpermdatakey-string-any)
  - [RoomObject.GetItems() \[\]ItemObject](#roomobjectgetitems-itemobject)
  - [RoomObject.DestroyItem(itm ScriptItem) ](#roomobjectdestroyitemitm-scriptitem-)
  - [RoomObject.SpawnItem(itemId int, inStash bool) \[\]ItemObject](#roomobjectspawnitemitemid-int-instash-bool-itemobject)
  - [RoomObject.GetMobs() \[\]int](#roomobjectgetmobs-int)
  - [RoomObject.GetPlayers() \[\]int](#roomobjectgetplayers-int)
  - [RoomObject.GetContainers() \[\]string](#roomobjectgetcontainers-string)
  - [RoomObject.GetExits() \[\]object](#roomobjectgetexits-object)
  - [GetMap(mapRoomId int, mapSize string, mapHeight int, mapWidth int, mapName string, showSecrets bool \[,mapMarker string, mapMarker string\]) string](#getmapmaproomid-int-mapsize-string-mapheight-int-mapwidth-int-mapname-string-showsecrets-bool-mapmarker-string-mapmarker-string-string)
  - [RoomObject.HasQuest(questId string \[,partyUserId int\]) \[\]int](#roomobjecthasquestquestid-string-partyuserid-int-int)
  - [RoomObject.MissingQuest(questId string \[,partyUserId int\]) \[\]int](#roomobjectmissingquestquestid-string-partyuserid-int-int)
  - [RoomObject.SpawnMob(mobId int) Actor](#roomobjectspawnmobmobid-int-actor)
  - [RoomObject.AddTemporaryExit(exitNameSimple string, exitNameFancy string, exitRoomId int, roundTTL int](#roomobjectaddtemporaryexitexitnamesimple-string-exitnamefancy-string-exitroomid-int-roundttl-int)
  - [RoomObject.RemoveTemporaryExit(exitNameSimple string, exitNameFancy string, exitRoomId int](#roomobjectremovetemporaryexitexitnamesimple-string-exitnamefancy-string-exitroomid-int)
  - [RoomObject.AddMutator(mutName string](#roomobjectaddmutatormutname-string)
  - [RoomObject.RemoveMutator(mutName string](#roomobjectremovemutatormutname-string)
  - [RoomObject.RepeatSpawnItem(itemId int, roundInterval int \[, containerName\]](#roomobjectrepeatspawnitemitemid-int-roundinterval-int--containername)
  - [RoomObject.SetLocked(exitName string, lockIt bool)](#roomobjectsetlockedexitname-string-lockit-bool)

## [GetRoom(roomId int) RoomObject ](/scripting/room_func.go)
Retrieves a RoomObject for a given roomId.

## [RoomObject.RoomId() int](/scripting/room_func.go)
Returns the roomId of the room.

## [RoomObject.SendText(msg string[, excludeUserIds int])](/scripting/room_func.go)
Sends a message to everyone in the room.

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| msg | the message to send |
| excludeUserIds | One or more comma separated userIds to exclude from receiving the message. |

## [RoomObject.SetTempData(key string, value any)](/scripting/room_func.go)
Sets temporary data for the room (Lasts until the room is unloaded from memory).

_Note: This is useful for short term saving/retrieving data between room scripts, such as a switch being triggered._

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| key | A unique identifier for the data. |
| value | What you will be saving. |

## [RoomObject.GetTempData(key string) any](/scripting/room_func.go)
Gets temporarily saved data for the room. Data is ephemeral.

_Note: This is useful for short term saving/retrieving data between room scripts, such as a switch being triggered._

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| key | A unique identifier for the data. |

## [RoomObject.SetPermData(key string, value any)](/scripting/room_func.go)
Sets permanent data for the room (Saved even when room is unloaded from memory).

_Note: This is useful for long term saving/retrieving data between room scripts, such as a leaderboard or clan ownership._

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| key | A unique identifier for the data. |
| value | What you will be saving. |

## [RoomObject.GetPermData(key string) any](/scripting/room_func.go)
Gets permanently saved data for the room.

_Note: This is useful for long term saving/retrieving data between room scripts, such as a leaderboard or clan ownership._

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| key | A unique identifier for the data. |

## [RoomObject.GetItems() []ItemObject](/scripting/room_func.go)
Returns an array of items on the floor of the room.

_Note: See [/scripting/docs/FUNCTIONS_ITEMS.md](/scripting/docs/FUNCTIONS_ITEMS.md) for details on ItemObject objects._

## [RoomObject.DestroyItem(itm ScriptItem) ](/scripting/room_func.go)
Destroy an item from the ground.

## [RoomObject.SpawnItem(itemId int, inStash bool) []ItemObject](/scripting/room_func.go)
Spawns an item in the room.

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| itemId | ItemId to spawn. |
| inStash | If true, spawns stashed instead of visible. |

## [RoomObject.GetMobs() []int](/scripting/room_func.go)
Returns an array of `mobInstanceIds` in the room.

## [RoomObject.GetPlayers() []int](/scripting/room_func.go)
Returns an array of `userIds` in the room.

## [RoomObject.GetContainers() []string](/scripting/room_func.go)
Gets a list of container names in the room.

## [RoomObject.GetExits() []object](/scripting/room_func.go)
Gets a list of exits in the room.

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| roomId | The room id to get containers for. |

Each `object` in the returned array has the following properties:
|  Property | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| Name | Name of the exit such as `north` or `cave`. |
| Secret | Whether or not the exit is secret/hidden. |
| Lock | `false` if no lock |
| Lock.LockId | Id if the lock (Some keys may match it) |
| Lock.Difficulty | Difficulty rating of the lock |
| Lock.Sequence | Lockpicking sequence of the lock such as `UUDU` |

## [GetMap(mapRoomId int, mapSize string, mapHeight int, mapWidth int, mapName string, showSecrets bool [,mapMarker string, mapMarker string]) string](/scripting/room_func.go)
Gets a rendered map of an area.

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| mapRoomId | The room id center the map on. |
| mapSize | `wide` or `normal`. Wide maps fit more rooms but don't show the connections. |
| mapHeight | How many lines high the map should be |
| mapWidth | How many lines wide the map should be |
| mapName | The title to display at the top of the map |
| showSecrets | If `true`, show secret rooms. |
| mapMarker (optional) | Zero or more special strings specifying a symbol and legend to override on the map. |
|   | For example: `1,×,Here` Would put `×` on `RoomId 1` and mark is as `Here` on the legend. |

## [RoomObject.HasQuest(questId string [,partyUserId int]) []int](/scripting/room_func.go)
Returns an array of userId's in the room who have the questId. If partyyUserId is supplied, only checks the user and their party specified.

_Note: This could be useful for situations where you want to allow a whole party access to an area even if only one of them has the quest._

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| questId | The identifier of the quest such as `3-start`. |
| partyUserId (optional) | Only check the specified user and their party |

## [RoomObject.MissingQuest(questId string [,partyUserId int]) []int](/scripting/room_func.go)
Returns an array of userId's in the romo who DON'T have the questId. If partyyUserId is supplied, only checks the user and their party specified.

_Note: This could be useful for situations where you want to disallow a whole party access to an area even if only one of them is missing the quest._

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| questId | The identifier of the quest such as `3-start`. |
| partyUserId (optional) | Only check the specified user and their party |

## [RoomObject.SpawnMob(mobId int) Actor](/scripting/room_func.go)
Creates a new instance of MobId,and returns the `Actor` of the mob.

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| mobId | The ID if the mob type to spawn. NOT THE INSTANCE ID. |

## [RoomObject.AddTemporaryExit(exitNameSimple string, exitNameFancy string, exitRoomId int, roundTTL int](/scripting/room_func.go)
Adds a temporary exit to the room for the specified amount of time.

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| exitNameSimple | The simple plain text exit name. |
| exitNameFancy | Should be the simple name, but can have color tags. |
| exitRoomId | The roomId the exit should lead to. |
| roundTTL | How many rounds the exit should persist for. |

## [RoomObject.RemoveTemporaryExit(exitNameSimple string, exitNameFancy string, exitRoomId int](/scripting/room_func.go)
Removes a temporary exit

_Note: all 3 parameters much match an existing temporary exit for it to be removed._

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| exitNameSimple | The simple plain text exit name. |
| exitNameFancy | Should be the simple name, but can have color tags. |
| exitRoomId | The roomId the exit should lead to. |

## [RoomObject.AddMutator(mutName string](/scripting/room_func.go)
Adds a new mutator to a room.

_Note: If the mutator already exists this is ignored._

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| mutName | the MutatorId of the mutator. |

## [RoomObject.RemoveMutator(mutName string](/scripting/room_func.go)
Removes a mutator from a room.

_Note: This only expires it. It may be a mutator that respawns, in which case this doens't really completely remove it._

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| mutName | the MutatorId of the mutator. |


## [RoomObject.RepeatSpawnItem(itemId int, roundInterval int [, containerName]](/scripting/room_func.go)
Removes a temporary exit

_Note: all 3 parameters much match an existing temporary exit for it to be removed._

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| itemId | What item? |
| roundInterval | How many rounds until the item respawns after it is taken/removed from the room? |
| containerName | Optional container for the item to spawn into. |

## [RoomObject.SetLocked(exitName string, lockIt bool)](/scripting/room_func.go)
Sets an exit to locked or not (If it has a lock)

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| exitName | The exitname to lock/unlock |
| lockIt | if true, sets it to locked. Otherwise, unlocks it. |
