scripting/docs/SCRIPTING_MOBS.md, before:

# Mob Scripting

Example Script: 
* [Mob Script Tag Instance Script (hungry)](../../_datafiles/mobs/frostfang/scripts/2-hungry.js)
* [Mob Script Tag defined in Spawninfo (hungry)](../../_datafiles/rooms/frostfang/271.yaml)

## Script paths

All mob scripts reside in a subfolder of their zone/definition file.

For example, the mob located at `../../_datafiles/mobs/frostfang/2.yaml` would place its script at `../../_datafiles/mobs/frostfang/scripts/2.js`

If a mob defined in a rooms spawninfo has a `scripttag` defined, it will be appended to the mobs script path with a hyphen. 

For example, `scripttag: hungry` for mob `2` (as above) would load the script `../../_datafiles/mobs/frostfang/scripts/2-hungry.js`

In this way you can have generic scripts for a mob id, or specific scripts for special rooms or circumstances.

# Script Functions and Rules

Any variables defined in the global scope of a mob script will be set for all mobs that use that script. If you want to set/recall mob-specific data, use [SetTempData/GetTempData](FUNCTIONS_ACTORS.md#actorobjectsettempdatakey-string-value-any)

The following functions are special keywords that will be invoked under specific circumstances if they are defined within your script:

---

```
function onLoad(mob ActorObject) {

}
```

`onLoad()` is useful for initializing any state for the mob, especially if it might take some extra time. onLoad() is usually given more time to execute than any other function.
It is usually called within one round of a mob instance being created, or possibly sooner if players are present.

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| mob | [ActorObject](FUNCTIONS_ACTORS.md) |

---

```
function onIdle(mob ActorObject, room RoomObject) {
}
```

`onIdle()` is called each round that a mob isn't in combat or doing something that supercedes being idle, such as trying to walk home after wandering too far. Returning `false` will allow the mob to perform their other idle checks such as looking for trouble, performing first aid, etc.

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| mob | [ActorObject](FUNCTIONS_ACTORS.md) |
| room | [RoomObject](FUNCTIONS_ROOMS.md) |

---

```
function onGive(mob ActorObject, room RoomObject, eventDetails object) {
}
```

`onGive()` is called when an object or gold is given to a mob with the `give` command. Returning `true` from this function will stop the mob from attempting to wear the object (if applicable).

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| mob | [ActorObject](FUNCTIONS_ACTORS.md) |
| room | [RoomObject](FUNCTIONS_ROOMS.md) |
| eventDetails.sourceId | The `userId` or `mobInstanceId` that gave the item/gold |
| eventDetails.sourceType | `"user"` or `"mob"`, the source type of the gift |
| eventDetails.gold | How much gold was given (if any) |
| eventDetails.item | An Item object that was given (if any) |

---

```
function onShow(mob ActorObject, room RoomObject, eventDetails object) {
}
```

`onShow()` is called when an object or gold is showed to a mob with the `show` command.

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| mob | [ActorObject](FUNCTIONS_ACTORS.md) |
| room | [RoomObject](FUNCTIONS_ROOMS.md) |
| eventDetails.sourceId | The `userId` or `mobInstanceId` that showed the item |
| eventDetails.sourceType | `"user"` or `"mob"`, the source type of the object being shown |
| eventDetails.item | An Item object that was shown |

---

```
function onAsk(mob ActorObject, room RoomObject, eventDetails object) {
}
```

`onAsk()` is called when mob is asked something. Returning `false` will cause the mob to respond with a generic rejection such as "the mob just shakes their head".

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| mob | [ActorObject](FUNCTIONS_ACTORS.md) |
| room | [RoomObject](FUNCTIONS_ROOMS.md) |
| eventDetails.sourceId | The `userId` or `mobInstanceId` that asked the question |
| eventDetails.sourceType | `"user"` or `"mob"`, the source type of the question |
| eventDetails.askText | The question the mob was asked |

---

```
function onCommand(cmd string, rest string, mob ActorObject, room RoomObject, eventDetails object) {
}
```

`onCommand()` is called if anyone in the room types anything at all (even invalid commands).

Returning `true` will halt any further processing of the response, and returning `false` will all the command to continue along and be processed as normal.

NOTE: This is called BEFORE the room's `onCommand()` functions.
NOTE: Other mobs may be in the room with `onCommand()` functions defined, and they may prevent down-stream mobs from being called if they return `true`.

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| cmd | the command entered, such as `look`, `drop` or `west`. |
| rest | Everything entered after the command (if anything). |
| mob | [ActorObject](FUNCTIONS_ACTORS.md) |
| room | [RoomObject](FUNCTIONS_ROOMS.md) |
| eventDetails.sourceId | The `userId` or `mobInstanceId` that sent the command |
| eventDetails.sourceType | `"user"` or `"mob"`, the source type of the command |

---

```
function onCommand_{command}(rest, mob ActorObject, room RoomObject, eventDetails object) {
}
```

`onCommand_{command}()` is called if anyone in the room types whatever is after the underscore. 

For example, `onCommand_look()` would be called if anyone types `look`.

If an `onCommand_{command}` is defined in a script, that command will not be passed to the normal `onCommand()`. So `onCommand_look()` would be called, but `onCommand()` with `look` as a `cmd` value would not.

In all other ways, this follows the same rules as the normal `onCommand()` function.

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| rest | Everything entered after the command (if anything). |
| mob | [ActorObject](FUNCTIONS_ACTORS.md) |
| room | [RoomObject](FUNCTIONS_ROOMS.md) |
| eventDetails.sourceId | The `userId` or `mobInstanceId` that sent the command |
| eventDetails.sourceType | `"user"` or `"mob"`, the source type of the command |

---

```
function onHurt(mob ActorObject, room RoomObject, eventDetails object) {
}
```

`onHurt()` is called when the mob takes damage from an attack.

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| rest | Everything entered after the command (if anything). |
| mob | [ActorObject](FUNCTIONS_ACTORS.md) |
| room | [RoomObject](FUNCTIONS_ROOMS.md) |
| eventDetails.sourceId | The `userId` or `mobInstanceId` that hit the mob |
| eventDetails.sourceType | `"user"` or `"mob"`, the source type of the attack |
| eventDetails.damage | how many hitpoints of damage were caused |
| eventDetails.crit | true/false of whether was a crit. |

---

```
function onDie(mob ActorObject, room RoomObject, eventDetails object) {
}
```

`onDie()` is called when a mob dies, once for every player that caused damage to it. Currently only called for users that harmed it.

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| rest | Everything entered after the command (if anything). |
| mob | [ActorObject](FUNCTIONS_ACTORS.md) |
| room | [RoomObject](FUNCTIONS_ROOMS.md) |
| eventDetails.sourceId | The `userId` or `mobInstanceId` that killed the mob |
| eventDetails.sourceType | `"user"` or `"mob"`, the source type of the death |
| eventDetails.attackerCount | How many users hurt this mob before it died. |

---

```
function onConverse(message string, mob ActorObject, sourceMob ActorObject, room RoomObject) {
}
```

`onConverse()` is a special event function that is only called when mobs use the `converse` command.

_Note: The intention of the converse command and onConverse is to faciliate mob-to-mob discussions._

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| message | The message that was sent via converse. |
| mob | [ActorObject](FUNCTIONS_ACTORS.md) |
| sourceMob | [ActorObject](FUNCTIONS_ACTORS.md) |
| room | [RoomObject](FUNCTIONS_ROOMS.md) |
| eventDetails.sourceId | The `userId` or `mobInstanceId` that killed the mob |
| eventDetails.sourceType | `"user"` or `"mob"`, the source type of the death |
| eventDetails.attackerCount | How many users hurt this mob before it died. |

---

Commit message:

Content Changes (#51)
# Changes
* Lots of new areas defined, new npc's, items, places to train, etc.
* Added a trait of items that they can apply buffs that stay on the character until the item is removed.
* Tame skill defined, limits to how many charmed followers a player can have defined
* Parties now list charmed mobs in them properly.
* Misc data tracking per Character now possible.
* Sorcerer/Monster Hunter profession definitions
* Scriptable `RepeatSpawnItem()` function
* Many new functions and documentation added for Actor scripting
* `IsTameable()` mob function to prevent important or weird mobs from being tamed.
* build room command description copying fix
* mob `suicide` command now allows `vanish` argument to disappear the mob without providing notification or rewards to players.
* Added `poisoned` adjective
* `cast` is a skill now.
* removed `charmrat` spell, supplanted by `tame`

scripting/docs/SCRIPTING_MOBS.md, after:

# Mob Scripting

Example Script: 
* [Mob Script Tag Instance Script (hungry)](../../_datafiles/mobs/frostfang/scripts/2-hungry.js)
* [Mob Script Tag defined in Spawninfo (hungry)](../../_datafiles/rooms/frostfang/271.yaml)

## Script paths

All mob scripts reside in a subfolder of their zone/definition file.

For example, the mob located at `../../_datafiles/mobs/frostfang/2.yaml` would place its script at `../../_datafiles/mobs/frostfang/scripts/2.js`

If a mob defined in a rooms spawninfo has a `scripttag` defined, it will be appended to the mobs script path with a hyphen. 

For example, `scripttag: hungry` for mob `2` (as above) would load the script `../../_datafiles/mobs/frostfang/scripts/2-hungry.js`

In this way you can have generic scripts for a mob id, or specific scripts for special rooms or circumstances.

# Script Functions and Rules

Any variables defined in the global scope of a mob script will be set for all mobs that use that script. If you want to set/recall mob-specific data, use [SetTempData/GetTempData](FUNCTIONS_ACTORS.md#actorobjectsettempdatakey-string-value-any)

The following functions are special keywords that will be invoked under specific circumstances if they are defined within your script:

---

```
function onLoad(mob ActorObject) {

}
```

`onLoad()` is useful for initializing any state for the mob, especially if it might take some extra time. onLoad() is usually given more time to execute than any other function.
It is usually called within one round of a mob instance being created, or possibly sooner if players are present.

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| mob | [ActorObject](FUNCTIONS_ACTORS.md) |

---

```
function onIdle(mob ActorObject, room RoomObject) {
}
```

`onIdle()` is called each round that a mob isn't in combat or doing something that supercedes being idle, such as trying to walk home after wandering too far. Returning `false` will allow the mob to perform their other idle checks such as looking for trouble, performing first aid, etc.

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| mob | [ActorObject](FUNCTIONS_ACTORS.md) |
| room | [RoomObject](FUNCTIONS_ROOMS.md) |

---

```
function onGive(mob ActorObject, room RoomObject, eventDetails object) {
}
```

`onGive()` is called when an object or gold is given to a mob with the `give` command. Returning `true` from this function will stop the mob from attempting to wear the object (if applicable).

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| mob | [ActorObject](FUNCTIONS_ACTORS.md) |
| room | [RoomObject](FUNCTIONS_ROOMS.md) |
| eventDetails.sourceId | The `userId` or `mobInstanceId` that gave the item/gold |
| eventDetails.sourceType | `"user"` or `"mob"`, the source type of the gift |
| eventDetails.gold | How much gold was given (if any) |
| eventDetails.item | An Item object that was given (if any) |

---

```
function onShow(mob ActorObject, room RoomObject, eventDetails object) {
}
```

`onShow()` is called when an object or gold is showed to a mob with the `show` command.

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| mob | [ActorObject](FUNCTIONS_ACTORS.md) |
| room | [RoomObject](FUNCTIONS_ROOMS.md) |
| eventDetails.sourceId | The `userId` or `mobInstanceId` that showed the item |
| eventDetails.sourceType | `"user"` or `"mob"`, the source type of the object being shown |
| eventDetails.item | An Item object that was shown |

---

```
function onAsk(mob ActorObject, room RoomObject, eventDetails object) {
}
```

`onAsk()` is called when mob is asked something. Returning `false` will cause the mob to respond with a generic rejection such as "the mob just shakes their head".

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| mob | [ActorObject](FUNCTIONS_ACTORS.md) |
| room | [RoomObject](FUNCTIONS_ROOMS.md) |
| eventDetails.sourceId | The `userId` or `mobInstanceId` that asked the question |
| eventDetails.sourceType | `"user"` or `"mob"`, the source type of the question |
| eventDetails.askText | The question the mob was asked |

---

```
function onCommand(cmd string, rest string, mob ActorObject, room RoomObject, eventDetails object) {
}
```

`onCommand()` is called if anyone in the room types anything at all (even invalid commands).

Returning `true` will halt any further processing of the response, and returning `false` will all the command to continue along and be processed as normal.

NOTE: This is called BEFORE the room's `onCommand()` functions.
NOTE: Other mobs may be in the room with `onCommand()` functions defined, and they may prevent down-stream mobs from being called if they return `true`.

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| cmd | the command entered, such as `look`, `drop` or `west`. |
| rest | Everything entered after the command (if anything). |
| mob | [ActorObject](FUNCTIONS_ACTORS.md) |
| room | [RoomObject](FUNCTIONS_ROOMS.md) |
| eventDetails.sourceId | The `userId` or `mobInstanceId` that sent the command |
| eventDetails.sourceType | `"user"` or `"mob"`, the source type of the command |

---

```
function onCommand_{command}(rest, mob ActorObject, room RoomObject, eventDetails object) {
}
```

`onCommand_{command}()` is called if anyone in the room types whatever is after the underscore. 

For example, `onCommand_look()` would be called if anyone types `look`.

If an `onCommand_{command}` is defined in a script, that command will not be passed to the normal `onCommand()`. So `onCommand_look()` would be called, but `onCommand()` with `look` as a `cmd` value would not.

In all other ways, this follows the same rules as the normal `onCommand()` function.

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| rest | Everything entered after the command (if anything). |
| mob | [ActorObject](FUNCTIONS_ACTORS.md) |
| room | [RoomObject](FUNCTIONS_ROOMS.md) |
| eventDetails.sourceId | The `userId` or `mobInstanceId` that sent the command |
| eventDetails.sourceType | `"user"` or `"mob"`, the source type of the command |

---

```
function onHurt(mob ActorObject, room RoomObject, eventDetails object) {
}
```

`onHurt()` is called when the mob takes damage from an attack.

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| rest | Everything entered after the command (if anything). |
| mob | [ActorObject](FUNCTIONS_ACTORS.md) |
| room | [RoomObject](FUNCTIONS_ROOMS.md) |
| eventDetails.sourceId | The `userId` or `mobInstanceId` that hit the mob |
| eventDetails.sourceType | `"user"` or `"mob"`, the source type of the attack |
| eventDetails.damage | how many hitpoints of damage were caused |
| eventDetails.crit | true/false of whether was a crit. |

---

```
function onDie(mob ActorObject, room RoomObject, eventDetails object) {
}
```

`onDie()` is called when a mob dies, once for every player that caused damage to it. Currently only called for users that harmed it.

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| rest | Everything entered after the command (if anything). |
| mob | [ActorObject](FUNCTIONS_ACTORS.md) |
| room | [RoomObject](FUNCTIONS_ROOMS.md) |
| eventDetails.sourceId | The `userId` or `mobInstanceId` that killed the mob |
| eventDetails.sourceType | `"user"` or `"mob"`, the source type of the death |
| eventDetails.attackerCount | How many users hurt this mob before it died. |

---

```
function onConverse(message string, mob ActorObject, sourceMob ActorObject, room RoomObject) {
}
```

`onConverse()` is a special event function that is only called when mobs use the `converse` command.

_Note: The intention of the converse command and onConverse is to faciliate mob-to-mob discussions._

|  Argument | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| message | The message that was sent via converse. |
| mob | [ActorObject](FUNCTIONS_ACTORS.md) - The mob hearing the conversation |
| sourceMob | [ActorObject](FUNCTIONS_ACTORS.md) - The mob issuing the converse command |
| room | [RoomObject](FUNCTIONS_ROOMS.md) |

---
